Comments from Jeff:

* The intro spends a huge amount of time talking about prior work, and
  it's only in the middle of the left column on page 2 that I actually
  learn what the new contribution of this paper is. I think you need
  to move this much earlier.

PM: attempted to hint at the contribution earlier, right after
explaining why differential privacy is a bad solution to this problem
via those examples in the intro.

* I also found the examples in the 3rd and 4th paras of the intro, on
  the limitations of previous approaches, confusing, because I don't
  know exactly what those techniques do. The sentence "This function
  should be deemed unsafe because the possibility...implies that..."
  was particularly confusing; I'd guess that the previous techniques
  fall down because they have to work in all possible scenarios, and
  this is an example of a case where one particular scenario causes a
  problem. It's just not very clear.

PM: reworded things here and simplified the second example.

* It was also surprising that you had detailed examples for other
  people's work in the introduction, but not for your own work. The
  paragraph "In recent work..." could benefit from a concrete example,
  as could the actual discussions of your contributions in this
  paper. I'd suggest scaling back what you say about related work to
  the bare minimum in the intro, and deferring the rest to related
  work; and then talk more about your contributions.

PM: the detailed examples serve to demonstrate our contribution, so I'm not
sure what to say here.

* The motivation for the two approaches seems a bit confusing. The
  first approach, the belief set method, is a prepass before you even
  go to SMC. This makes me think that perhaps you can justify it
  without referring to SMC at all? It might be a stronger result if it
  just stood on its own, especially because you dump a bit on SMC in
  the next paragraph, saying that it's very slow. I'm not quite sure
  how to take that---if you think SMC is so slow that it's useless,
  then why do we care about SMC at all? And if you think it may be
  practical one day, then why do you care that it's slow now?

PM: The confusion seems to be the relationships between the first
method and SMC. I've added some rewording to the first description of
the methods to distinguish more strongly the difference, specifically
that in the first case, the policy check takes place before any SMC is done.
